Hello and welcome back to the course and tablet in the previous tutorial.
We combined two data sets using a cross database join the first on us and came from an Excel file the
second one came from a CSB file and now we've got a new dataset with for the population column available
to us.
So let's go ahead and proceed back to our cluster analysis and refine it and see if this population
column can make a difference.
So there we go that's our cluster analysis I.
Duplicate this sheet.
And now we're going to see how we can refine this analysis.
Now all we need to do is we need to right click on clusters and select edit clusters so we don't even
have to add this new column population in charge of isolation we don't need to actually see it for it
to be included in the cluster analysis or into do is drag population into the list of variables for
our clusters click in here.
And as you can see right away now we have a different picture now based on these three variables.
If you think of it's like a three dimensional modelling exercise that's happening in the background
where Tableau is taking these three variables marketing spend revenue and population and it's looking
at those three variables it's understanding how to best group these observations into clusters based
on their proximity and then is just translating the result into colors on our two dimensional chart.
So basically we could keep putting in more variables in here.
Same would happen tableau would group them in a multidimensional space it'll be a five dimensional 10
dimensional space.
So it's just basically performing some mathematical calculations to understand what's the best way to
create groups of proximity of these observations and then is painting them for us here in colors on
our two dimensional dashboard resolution.
So it's just easier for us to assess.
So that's what's happening in the background.
And now let's have a look at the analytics that now we can perform as you can see a very different picture.
Before we had two groups and these elements were part of this bottom group over here now there's bottom
group is on its own.
And then you've got this yellow group which kind of overlaps the blue so even though for us they overlap
these two groups they overlap some of the orange yellow dots are above the blue and some of the blue
are below the yellow.
In reality this is because we don't see that third variable the population and we'll have a look at
a couple of examples just now of that.
So before we do that what are we to change is the actual representation of those visualization so let's
go to shape and change this from a circle to a field a circle and let's increase the size maybe something
like that.
And now when colorless said some transparency.
So somewhere like that.
So we can actually better see what's going on.
And now let's take population and we'll just put it into detail so that it can cut it comes up when
we look at the pop up.
So let's start off this bottom set of observations.
So here you'll see that population is about one hundred thousand one hundred two hundred seven thousand
hundred eight hundred six hundred three thousand hundred five hundred nine hundred nine thousand so
around those numbers.
Now let's have a look at these here.
Population one hundred twenty six thousand are at thirty two hundred forty seven hundred twenty eight
hundred and forty.
And so on.
So in these orange dots a population is higher.
Now let's look at the blue dots.
Blue dots population is 200 171 here 197 200 here 213.
So as you can see the population in the blue dots is even higher than orange.
And that is how they're distinct.
So even though they're close here the the picture there are quite proximity is high.
So they're close to each other but at the same time they differ in a variable that we don't see on this
observation which is population and that is how tableau has assessed that there is actually three groups
here.
So the blue the yellow and the red and that is a great great step for us.
So first of all this the fact that this group is separate kind of confirms are thinking that population
does affect revenue so all of these cities they have a population of about 100.
So under one hundred and ten thousand people and therefore maybe the marketing efforts are not yielding
any additional results whereas these cities they have greater populations and therefore the marketing
efforts are actually maybe there is a correlation that why the marketing efforts are giving us results.
So now that we have these separate groups how do we enhance our analysis.
So yes that's a that's a great start but apart from us visually seeing that the groups are different
what are the differences in the trends and in order to look at the trends we good to go to the analytic
spend again and again we haven't spoken about trend lines in this chorus.
This is a more advanced topic it's something for loved ones of course and tableaux and if you want to
learn more about trend lines you're definitely welcome to check out my advanced course.
But we'll have a quick sneak peek into trend lines right now.
So all we need to do is take the trend line and just drag it onto the chart.
We're going to take it.
We're going to linear trend lines so we can just drag on to chart.
It will still create a linear trend line for us and what we can see here are the three trend lines for
these three clusters.
So what you can see for the red line for instance if you hover over it you'll see that the revenue.
So the formulas at the very top.
It says that the revenue is zero point ninety four times marketing spend plus sixteen thousand forty
three.
So basically what we're interested in here is this first bit.
So the slope.
And here it's ninety four point eighty four.
So what that means is that for every dollar of marketing spend the revenue goes up by 94 cents.
So that's even less than by one dollar.
So basically you're losing money.
This is a dollar.
Let's not forget that this is revenue.
This is not profit.
So basically a marketing spend is going to come out as an expense from revenue if we talk about financial
terms.
But the main point here is that this coefficient is less than 1 meaning that for every dollar that you
invest into marketing in this cluster you're only according to this model you're only getting back was
90.
What does it ninety four cents of revenue whereas for the Orange cluster you're getting back seven dollars
32 cents for every dollar invested into marketing the revenue predicted revenue input or increase in
revenue is seven dollars 32 for the blue cluster.
Every dollar spent on marketing increases our revenue by three dollars and 17 cents.
So that is a very very powerful insight.
And I'll explain exactly why right now.
So this insight is so useful to us because let's have a look at these expansions that have been created.
So if I select new here.
First of all you can see that so many lines are being drawn right now and that is simply because Tableau
is recreating these trend lines for the highlighted features.
So it's as we shut off we'll just click on one of these trend lines are will click edit trend lines
and at the bottom we'll just uncheck Sheree calico line for highlighted or selected data points to click
Okay.
And now it won't recreate the trend lines for the highlighted data points.
So now from the dropdown just select new and there you can see our point.
So you can see that we have one of the new stores was opened and it is in terms of proximity and similarity
it is very similar to all these red ones that we already have.
So it has been operating for a bit weary you know what's the marketing spend is what revenue it generates.
And we can see that and based also on population it kind of falls in this category.
So from that we can drive that there's a high likelihood that if we keep investing into marketing if
we add another thousand dollars or another thousand dollars then not much is going to change because
this trend line is predicting that per every dollar that you add into marketing for this cluster you're
only getting 94 sense of revenue and increase in revenue at the same time we've got five stores or five
cities were opened that are very similar to the blue closer and four that are similar to the yellow
cluster.
And so the question is out of these 10 which ones would you recommend the CEO to invest money in marketing.
So that's that's the question to you.
Maybe pause this video and think about it.
Based on the analysis that we've performed which ones would you choose.
Obviously it's not the red one.
It's not the red one because it's in the very bad situation would you choose the blue ones or would
you choose the yellow ones let's say for example you can only choose three cities which three cities
would you choose would be orange ones would they be blue ones.
And that's a wonderful Australian on the power of clustering and trend lines when you put them together.
So if we just forget about the clusters or even forget about just the trend lines.
Right so if you forget about the clusters to start with.
So let's say this for instance this remove the trend line and so our unclear trend line and then Leslie
will remove the cluster.
So just from here you would perhaps pick one two three there top three or eight because they're generating
the most revenue these stores or you might say these three because they're generating a lot of revenue
but at the same time they're marking spend isn't that high.
No if you return the clusters you would probably look at these and you'd say All right.
So the blue cluster is obviously higher.
So I would still pick stories from more cities from the blue cluster.
But then if you return the trend lines now you can see that even though these are great cities great
locations.
So if I select this again you'll see that these are great locations they're generating a lot of revenue
at the same time the trend line is for costing that per every dollar that you add into marketing you're
only getting three dollars of revenue increase.
Whereas if the orange ones even though they're right now they're a bit lower than the blue ones.
They're kind of a lower revenue generating area at the same time.
The trend line what is it.
Is forecasting is that for every single dollar that you invest in marketing you're getting back seven
dollars and 32 cents of revenue.
So obviously from this analysis it is pretty evident that the best stores are the cities out of these
highlighted wants to look at other orange ones.
So if you had to pick three stores or you had to prioritize them in a way that you invest your funds
into them then you would put the orange ones in the first place.
Of course there's four orange ones if you have to pick three then you have to do some additional analysis
or the CEO might have some additional knowledge about it but basically all of these orange ones and
they're in a great position in terms of what the clusters are telling us.
And in terms of what the trend lines are telling us.
So there we go.
This is a very powerful analysis that we can perform as you can see we refined our clusters using an
external dataset which we came up with using just domain knowledge and thinking about how this company
operates.
And based on this we can make a conclusion for analysis that the certain stores the stores that you
would want to invest further in our stores in this orange cluster simply because the return on investment
will be higher.
So the increase in revenue per every dollar that we invest into these stores into marketing in these
stores is expected to be higher.
According to this model I hope you enjoy this material a very very powerful insights.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.